Add reference documentation for garage-sign (#1691)
advancedtelematic/aktualizr: docs/ota-client-guide/modules/ROOT/pages/garage-sign-reference.adoc

= Garage-sign commands and options

You can use the `garage-sign` tool if you need to sign metadata about your software, as well as manage your software signing keys and root of trust. When you start using OTA Connect, we generate a root of trust and a signing key for you, and automatically sign software you upload. Later on, you can use `garage-sign` to rotate those keys, taking them completely offline to increase security.

In the reference below, find a list of commands and options that you can use.

> .Garage-sign reference

Author: Added

+++<details><summary>+++
`user-keys [gen|id]`—Manages keys that are not associated with a specific repository.
+++ </summary><div> +++

+++<details><summary>+++
`user-keys gen`—Creates key pairs that are not associated with a specific repository.
+++</summary><div>+++

[.release_notes]
[cols="15m,75a"]
|====================
| -t, --type | The type of key that you want to create: `ed25519` or `rsa`.
| --keysize | The length of the key that you want to create, in bits. RSA 2048/4096 an Ed25519 are supported.
| -k, --key-name | The name of the file with your private and public keys.
|====================

+++</div></details>+++

+++<details><summary>+++
`user-keys id`—Calculates your public key ID.
+++</summary><div>+++

[.release_notes]
[cols="15m,75a"]
|====================
| -i, --input | The path to the file with your public keys.
|====================

+++</div></details>+++

[.release_notes]
[cols="15m,75a"]
|====================
| -p, --keys-path | The path where this executable will look for keys. By default, it is the `user-keys` directory in `home-dir`.
|====================

+++</div></details>+++

> +++<details><summary>+++

Reviewer: I am not 100% sure about the fully functional part of the delegation part of garage-sign. I have been trough this epic (OTA-677) on which we have been working on last year: I don't recall whether it was end-2-end tested and whether all the changes were deployed to production.
I would suggest to flag this part as 'Beta'. @patrickvacek , @simao  what do you think ?

Reviewer 2: It works last time I tried it. We still maintain unit tests for all of the delegation support in aktualizr. There are some limitations but it works as far as I know.

Author: To be on the safe side, should we add the Beta tag? Or is it okay to keep it as is?

Author: @xaviergully  @patrickvacek 
I added the **Beta** tag to delegations just to be on the safe side :)

| --old-root-alias | The alias of the old root key. The old root key will be saved under this name.
| --old-keyid | (Optional) The ID of the key that you want to remove from the `root.json` file. This app will try to use the last key defined in the current `root.json` file.
|====================

+++</div></details>+++

+++<details><summary>+++
`root [pull|push|key|sign]`—Manages a `root.json` file.
+++</summary><div>+++

`root pull`—Pulls the current `root.json` file from OTA Connect.

`root push`—Uploads a newly signed `root.json` file to OTA Connect.

+++<details><summary>+++
`root key [add|remove]`—Manages your root keys.
+++</summary><div>+++

+++<details><summary>+++
`root key add`—Adds your root keys.
+++</summary><div>+++

[.release_notes]
[cols="15m,75a"]
|====================
| -k, --key-name | The name of the file with the keys that you want to add.
|====================

+++</div></details>+++

+++<details><summary>+++
`root key remove`—Removes your root keys.
+++</summary><div>+++

[.release_notes]
[cols="15m,75a"]
|====================
| -k, --key-name | The name of the file with the keys that you want to remove.

> | --key-id | The ID of the public key that you want to remove.

Author: Nope, it's either the name or the ID :)

|====================

+++</div></details>+++

+++<details><summary>+++
`targets [init|add|add-uploaded|delete|sign|pull|push|upload|delegations]`—(Only for the repo server) Manages targets.
Targets are software versions available in your OTA Connect software repository.
+++</summary><div>+++

+++<details><summary>+++
`targets init`—Creates a `targets.json` file.
+++</summary><div>+++

[.release_notes]
[cols="15m,75a"]
|====================
| --version | The version of the `targets.json` file. The versions that start at 1 and always have to increase.
| --expires | The expiry time of your target. It is a UTC instant, such as `2020-01-01T00:01:00Z`.
|====================
+++</div></details>+++

+++<details><summary>+++
`targets add`—Adds a target.
+++</summary><div>+++

[.release_notes]
[cols="15m,75a"]
|====================
| --length | The length of the target, in bytes.
| --name | The name of the target.
| --version | The versions of the target.
| --format | The format of the target: [`ostree`\|`binary`]

> | --sha256 | The hash of the binary.

Reviewer 3: See suggestion from delegations section above.

| --hardwareids | The types of hardware for which your binary file is intended.

> | --url | The external URL where the `targets.json` file can be downloaded.

Reviewer 3: See suggestion from above. This is optional, and is a URL where the binary can be downloaded, not where the metadata can be downloaded.

|====================
+++</div></details>+++

+++<details><summary>+++

> `targets add-uploaded`—Adds the modified `targets.json` file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`targets add-uploaded`—Adds a target that you previously uploaded to OTA Connect using the `targets upload` command.
```

Please also move this below the `targets upload` item.

+++</summary><div>+++

[.release_notes]
[cols="15m,75a"]
|====================
| -i, --input | The path to the binary file.
| --name | The name of the target.

> | --version | The versions of the target.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| --version | The version string of the target.
```

> | --hardwareids | The types of hardware for which your binary file is intended.

Reviewer 3: See suggestion above.

|====================
+++</div></details>+++

+++<details><summary>+++

> `targets delete`—Deletes a single target.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`targets delete`—Deletes a single target. This target will no longer be eligible to be installed on devices.
```

+++</summary><div>+++

[.release_notes]
[cols="15m,75a"]
|====================

> | --filename | The name of the file with the target that you want to delete in the following format: <name>_<version>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| --filename | The exact name of the target to remove. Should be in the form `<name>_<version>` for OSTree images, or `<name>-<version>` for binary images.
```

Wow, this is a poorly named option.

|====================
+++</div></details>+++

+++<details><summary>+++

> `targets sign`—Signs your `targets.json` file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`targets sign`—Signs your `targets.json` file with a specific key.
```

+++</summary><div>+++

[.release_notes]
[cols="15m,75a"]
|====================

> | --key-name | The name of the file with the target that you want to delete in the following format: <name>_<version>.

Reviewer 3: Copy-paste error? See previous suggestions for wording here, and also double-check what exactly it's looking for.

> |--version | The versions of the target. It ignores an unsigned role version and uses the specified version instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|--version | The version number to use for the signed metadata. Overrides the version in the unsigned `targets.json`.
```

> | --expires | The expiry time of your target. It is a UTC instant, such as `2020-01-01T00:01:00Z`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| --expires | The expiry time of the metadata file. It is a UTC instant, such as `2020-01-01T00:01:00Z`.
```

| --expire-after | The expiration delay in years, months, and days (each optional, but in that order), such as `1Y3M5D`.

> | --force | Sets a date in the past.

Reviewer 3: See suggestion above

|====================
+++</div></details>+++

`targets pull`—Pulls the current `targets.json` file from OTA Connect.

`targets push`—Pushes the latest `targets.json` file to the server.

> If the latest `pull` was too long ago, and you did not pull the latest `targets.json` on the server, this `push` will fail with exit code 2.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the targets file is invalid, for example because of a bad signature or a non-increasing version number, this `push` will fail with exit code 2.
```

+++<details><summary>+++
`targets upload`—Uploads a binary to the repository.

> It will not add the binary to your available targets. After the successful upload, to make this target available to clients, you need to add it to your `targets.json` file using `targets add`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that this *will not* make the binary available on its own. After the upload completes successfully, you must also add it to your `targets.json` file using `targets add-uploaded`.
```
